WriteUp_Final.md, before:

# Advanced Lane Finding Project
***Vinayak Kamath | 09.Sept.2019***

---

**Project Goals**

The goals / steps of this project are the following:

* Compute the camera calibration matrix and distortion coefficients given a set of chessboard images.
* Apply a distortion correction to raw images.
* Use color transforms, gradients, etc., to create a thresholded binary image.
* Apply a perspective transform to rectify binary image ("birds-eye view").
* Detect lane pixels and fit to find the lane boundary.
* Determine the curvature of the lane and vehicle position with respect to center.
* Warp the detected lane boundaries back onto the original image.
* Output visual display of the lane boundaries and numerical estimation of lane curvature and vehicle position.

[//]: # (Image References)

[image1]: ./output_images/test_image_undistort.jpg "Undistorted"
[image2]: ./camera_cal/test_image.jpg "Distorted"
[image3]: ./camera_cal/test_image_2.jpg "Example"
[image4]: ./output_images/test_image_2_undistort.jpg "Example Undistorted"
[image5]: ./output_images/undistorted5.jpg "Undistorted Example"
[image6]: ./output_images/threshold5.jpg "Threshold Example"
[image7]: ./output_images/warp5.jpg "Warp Example"
[image8]: ./output_images/polysearch5.jpg "Poly Search Example"
[image9]: ./output_images/final5.jpg "Final Example"
[image10]: ./output_images/windowsearch5.jpg "Window Search Example"
[video1]: ./project_video_output.mp4 "Video Output"


### Camera Calibration
Initially, it is essential to import the necessary modules needed for various filtering and image processing steps further in the project. It also gives a good overview of the modules needed, if done in a consolidated fashion.

The Camera Calibration is essentially performed as per the intruction in the course exercise, using the cv2 Library function of ChessboardCorners. The distortion correction is subsequently performed after finding the transformation matrix between the object and image points. These matrix values are stored in a pickle file for further usage.

****Distorted Image****
![alt text][image2]

****Undistored Image****
![alt text][image1]


These distortion corrections were further tested on a home made image for cross-checking the extent of compatibility of the transformation matrix.

****Distorted Image****
![alt text][image3]

****Distortion Correction****
![alt text][image4]


### Color & Gradient Thresholding

The principle thresholding technique used (after many variations and iterations of threshold values) to generate a binary image were:

* S Channel Gradient from HLS color space || s_thresh=(80, 255)
* L Thresholding for light intensity filtering || l_thresh=(90,255)
* Sobel X-Direction gradient thresholding || sx_thresh=(10, 255)


****Corrected Image****
![alt text][image5]

****Thresholded Image****
![alt text][image6]

### Perspective Transformation

On achieving a robust thresholding mechanism, its time to transform the image into a "birds-eye" perspective. The choice for the source and destination points are as follows: 

| Source        | Destination   | 
|:-------------:|:-------------:| 
| 570, 470      | 320, 1        | 
| 722, 470      | 920, 1        |
| 1110, 720     | 920, 720      |
| 220, 720      | 960, 720      |

***Perspective Transformed Image
![alt text][image7]

### Lane Detection: Slide Window Search

This is where the heavy-math starts to show light. The window search is primarily sectioning of the lane images on detection and creating its progession based on:
* identified pixels, and recentering of the search Window in its progression.
* In case of absence of pixels, creating a progression based on the previous window coordinates.

To detect the start point of a search window, it is necessary to first identify the left and right lane sources (in this case: its concentrating primarily on the lower half of the transposed image, since the lane progression is safely assumed to proceed in the vertical direction). The source coordinates are determined on the histogram weight across the image (shape[0] axis). This ensures a good starting point for progressing the search windows, of which the size is determined based on:
* pre-defined window height based on no. of windows needed vertically to the overall size of the image.
* pre-defined size of 50 pixels as margins on either side of both left and right lanes.

![alt text][image10]

#### 4. Describe how (and identify where in your code) you identified lane-line pixels and fit their positions with a polynomial?

Then I did some other stuff and fit my lane lines with a 2nd order polynomial kinda like this:

![alt text][image5]

#### 5. Describe how (and identify where in your code) you calculated the radius of curvature of the lane and the position of the vehicle with respect to center.

I did this in lines # through # in my code in `my_other_file.py`

#### 6. Provide an example image of your result plotted back down onto the road such that the lane area is identified clearly.

I implemented this step in lines # through # in my code in `yet_another_file.py` in the function `map_lane()`.  Here is an example of my result on a test image:

![alt text][image6]

---

### Pipeline (video)

#### 1. Provide a link to your final video output.  Your pipeline should perform reasonably well on the entire project video (wobbly lines are ok but no catastrophic failures that would cause the car to drive off the road!).

Here's a [link to my video result](./project_video.mp4)

---

### Discussion

#### 1. Briefly discuss any problems / issues you faced in your implementation of this project.  Where will your pipeline likely fail?  What could you do to make it more robust?

Here I'll talk about the approach I took, what techniques I used, what worked and why, where the pipeline might fail and how I might improve it if I were going to pursue this project further.

Commit message:

Updated WriteUp from LU-5 Desk

WriteUp_Final.md, after:

# Advanced Lane Finding Project
***Vinayak Kamath | 09.Sept.2019***

---

**Project Goals**

The goals / steps of this project are the following:

* Compute the camera calibration matrix and distortion coefficients given a set of chessboard images.
* Apply a distortion correction to raw images.
* Use color transforms, gradients, etc., to create a thresholded binary image.
* Apply a perspective transform to rectify binary image ("birds-eye view").
* Detect lane pixels and fit to find the lane boundary.
* Determine the curvature of the lane and vehicle position with respect to center.
* Warp the detected lane boundaries back onto the original image.
* Output visual display of the lane boundaries and numerical estimation of lane curvature and vehicle position.

[//]: # (Image References)

[image1]: ./output_images/test_image_undistort.jpg "Undistorted"
[image2]: ./camera_cal/test_image.jpg "Distorted"
[image3]: ./camera_cal/test_image_2.jpg "Example"
[image4]: ./output_images/test_image_2_undistort.jpg "Example Undistorted"
[image5]: ./output_images/undistorted5.jpg "Undistorted Example"
[image6]: ./output_images/threshold5.jpg "Threshold Example"
[image7]: ./output_images/warp5.jpg "Warp Example"
[image8]: ./output_images/polysearch5.jpg "Poly Search Example"
[image9]: ./output_images/final5.jpg "Final Example"
[image10]: ./output_images/windowsearch5.jpg "Window Search Example"
[video1]: ./project_video_output.mp4 "Video Output"


### Camera Calibration
Initially, it is essential to import the necessary modules needed for various filtering and image processing steps further in the project. It also gives a good overview of the modules needed, if done in a consolidated fashion.

The Camera Calibration is essentially performed as per the intruction in the course exercise, using the cv2 Library function of ChessboardCorners. The distortion correction is subsequently performed after finding the transformation matrix between the object and image points. These matrix values are stored in a pickle file for further usage.

****Distorted Image****
![alt text][image2]

****Undistored Image****
![alt text][image1]


These distortion corrections were further tested on a home made image for cross-checking the extent of compatibility of the transformation matrix.

****Distorted Image****
![alt text][image3]

****Distortion Correction****
![alt text][image4]


### Color & Gradient Thresholding

The principle thresholding technique used (after many variations and iterations of threshold values) to generate a binary image were:

* S Channel Gradient from HLS color space || s_thresh=(80, 255)
* L Thresholding for light intensity filtering || l_thresh=(90,255)
* Sobel X-Direction gradient thresholding || sx_thresh=(10, 255)


****Corrected Image****
![alt text][image5]

****Thresholded Image****
![alt text][image6]

### Perspective Transformation

On achieving a robust thresholding mechanism, its time to transform the image into a "birds-eye" perspective. The choice for the source and destination points are as follows: 

| Source        | Destination   | 
|:-------------:|:-------------:| 
| 570, 470      | 320, 1        | 
| 722, 470      | 920, 1        |
| 1110, 720     | 920, 720      |
| 220, 720      | 960, 720      |

****Perspective Transformed Image****
![alt text][image7]

### Lane Detection: Slide Window Search

This is where the heavy-math starts to show light. The window search is primarily sectioning of the lane images on detection and creating its progession based on:
* identified pixels, and recentering of the search Window in its progression.
* In case of absence of pixels, creating a progression based on the previous window coordinates.

To detect the start point of a search window, it is necessary to first identify the left and right lane sources (in this case: its concentrating primarily on the lower half of the transposed image, since the lane progression is safely assumed to proceed in the vertical direction). The source coordinates are determined on the histogram weight across the image (shape[0] axis). This ensures a good starting point for progressing the search windows, of which the size is determined based on:
* pre-defined window height based on no. of windows needed vertically to the overall size of the image.
* pre-defined size of 50 pixels as margins on either side of both left and right lanes.

The arrays of coordinates, both for left and right lanes are used as input parameters for the cv2.Polyfit function to obtain the coefficients of a second order polynomial.

![alt text][image10]

### Identify lanes around previously detected lines ###

Instead of initiating a new search for lane line coordinates with progressive windows, it is more efficient to obtain the next line coordinates for either lanes.
The polynomial is threby fitted for the coordinates from the previous frame that represents the lane center. The margin are set to similar values as the old search window.

****Lane lines around previous lines****

![alt text][image8]

### Transposing the lanes to the original traffic image ###

The area of interest, which was previous warped for lane detection is reverse transposed to the original image, including highlighting the lanes. The inverse matrix is determined using the same source and destination image coordinates. The Numpy and cv2 libraries are quite useful for superimposing these entities on the traffic image.

![alt text][image9]

---

## Pipeline Video ##
### Sanity Checks and Lane averaging ###

Proceeding on to implementing the lane detection process used on traffic images, the algorithm is implemented with a traffic video.

It is crucial that the video frames are:
* correctly corrected for distortion
* thresholded using the principles mentioned above.
* warped and lanes detected based on detected pixels for either lanes
* Transposed back from the warped image to the original video frame

A sanity check is necessary to ensure that the frame images have lanes detected and that the polynomial fitted lanes are progessive to previously created lanes from former frames.

This is done by keeping a log of predicted lanes in an array, which is used for:
* Checking if predictions exist based on polyfitted lines on an array of past good lines. If not, a reset search with reinitialising the window search is initiated.
* A deviation exceeding 30% between the predictions and previously obtained lanes initiates a averaging and updating a running mean array between the two lane lines.
* In case of missing lane pixels on any subsequent frame, the averaging is create the missing lane with reference to the other detected lane. This is because of the high likelyhood, that the missing lane would also be in the same direction as the detected lane, just on the otherside.



Here's a [link to my video result](./project_video_output.mp4)

---

### Discussion

#### 1. Briefly discuss any problems / issues you faced in your implementation of this project.  Where will your pipeline likely fail?  What could you do to make it more robust?

Here I'll talk about the approach I took, what techniques I used, what worked and why, where the pipeline might fail and how I might improve it if I were going to pursue this project further.
